---
title: "WE NEED A STRIKER!!"
date: "Jan 17, 2025"
category: "Football"
excerpt: "Arsenal have just lost two straight home games..."
id: "18"
featured: false
link: "https://facebook.com/post2"
---

Arsenal have just lost two consecutive games at home, to Newcastle and a ten-man Manchester United, effectively ending our 17-game unbeaten streak at the Emirates -- the longest-ever since Mikel Arteta took charge of our club in 2019. Admittedly, Saka and Ben White's injuries have hampered our attacking capabilities (although Jurrien Timber has been a solid replacement so far). Nwaneri seemed like a bright prospect but his muscle injury, which may take "several weeks" to recover, added fuel to the fire.

However, our build-up play hasn't been as shabby as it truly seems. Against Newcastle, we had an xG of 3.12 to 1.24 and 23 shots, and against Manchester United, our xG was 3.34 to 0.25 with 26 shots. Nevertheless, we lost to Newcastle 2-0 and to Manchester United 1-1 on penalties. The reason: we were "toothless" in attack.

<strong>Toothless in Attack</strong>

We couldn't get the ball in the back of the net and weren't clinical with our chances. No injury can justify scoring 0 goals with an xG greater than 3 at home. And against United, ten-man United, it was devastating to see our performance. We were dead, literally dead, up until Diogo Dalot's red card. Even after that, our only goal came from a deflection.

49 shots. At home. In just 2 games. A combined xG of about 6.5.

And we only scored one goal. A goal that wasn't from an attacker or a midfielder but from a center back. A goal that was going to the keeper but luckily deflected in.

This is unacceptable from a team that has been agonizingly close to clinching the Premier League title for the last two seasons. We are simply unable to score, and it's costing us silverware big time.

<strong>The Finishing Problem</strong>

But this isn't because of Saka's injury or Nwaneri's. It's because we are poor at finishing.

The player I am most critical of currently is Havertz. He's been extremely poor over the last two weeks, especially considering the chances he's gotten. He's been gifted with absolute sitters that he just can't get into the back of the net. Martinelli and Trossard haven't been consistently performing either. They can do well coming off the bench, but I don't think that they deserve a position in our starting 11 at the moment.

Jesus started performing well last month, but his knee injury looked bad. Considering how he had to be taken off by a stretcher, I don't think he'll be back for quite some time. We have no suitable forwards at the moment -- not even on the bench.

In some fairness to Havertz -- and I've said this many times before -- he isn't an out-and-out striker. He's more of an attacking midfielder, and comfortable in that position too. That seems to explain why he routinely drops back to support our build-up play rather than making forward runs in the final third.

<strong>Arteta's Responsibility</strong>

Ultimately, the blame comes down to Arteta. Don't get me wrong -- he's a great manager who, over the last few years, has taken us from a struggling mid-table team to a title race contender that comfortably makes it to the Champions League. And I'm no fan of this ridiculous 'ArtetaOut' movement.

However, his stubbornness and the rather irrelevant excuses he uses to smokescreen his mistakes have irked me in recent times. On so many occasions this season, we have struggled because of our incompetence in front of goal. It has led to 7 draws in the Premier League, and in each one of them, save for the Manchester City draw, we squandered meaningful chances which could have easily amounted to a win -- and 2 extra points.

Rather than emulating and surpassing the creativity and free-flowing attack we demonstrated last season, he has turned us into set-piece giants, compromising our attacking capabilities in the process.

<strong>The Transfer Mistake</strong>

The one and only brilliant solution: stop using a CAM as a striker, and sign a striker.

A few years back, we didn't have any issues with strikers. We had talented players such as Lacazette and Aubameyang, the latter being our team's star at that time. Unfortunately, a fallout with Mikel Arteta over disciplinary issues saw Auba leave Arsenal for Barcelona in the January transfer window three seasons back.

At the end of the same season, Lacazette departed for Lyon on a free transfer. As a result, Arteta signed injury-prone Jesus, who played very well in the 22/23 season but spent a fair share of matches on the bench due to injuries. Later, Arteta signed Kai Havertz for 65 million Euros.

Despite improvements in the later half of the 23/24 season, it was evident to pundits and Arsenal fans alike that we needed a true striker if we wanted to win the league. Havertz wasn't a bad player, but he couldn't fill the hole left by Auba and Laca.

Instead of signing a striker, Arteta reinforced other areas -- a fourth left-back, a midfielder, and a right-wing loan. None of these transfers addressed our real issue: a lack of firepower up front.

We lost forwards. And we didn't replace them.

Hence, our squad depth is shallow up front.

<strong>Season Defining Moment</strong>

Ultimately, we have paid the price for it. The injury to Saka has shown how vulnerable we are in attack. Trossard, Martinelli, and Jesus have not been performing well the entire season, and Havertz is being forced to play in a position he's clearly not suited for. Our only reliable attacker has been Saka, and his hamstring injury revealed just how fragile we are upfront. Nwaneri might be the brightest aspect of our season so far.

Reports have emerged about Arsenal bidding for Dusan Vlahovic and interest in Benjamin Sesko. Whatever happens, we NEED a striker if we want to compete for a trophy this season. The UCL is a lottery at best, we're out of the FA Cup, and we're barely hanging on in the Premier League and Carabao Cup.

If we don't get a striker...

It's season over.

All in all, this is why I believe Arsenal Football Club need a striker. As soon as possible.

Because at the moment, we're playing:

with an inconsistent left-wing

with a left-wing on the right wing

most importantly: without a striker.
