---
title: "Arsenal's Attacking Struggles"
date: "Jan 8, 2025"
category: "Football"
excerpt: "It's the start of a new year, and Arsenal are facing many issues..."
id: "19"
featured: false
link: "https://facebook.com/post3"
---

It’s the start of the new year, and there are many things for Arsenal fans to celebrate. We are statistically the team of the year in the Premier League, largely due to our defensive and offensive prowess that emerged from the start of this year. Apart from breaking our own statistical records, we have enhanced the depth of our team with players like Riccardo Calafiori, Raheem Sterling, Mikel Merino, and academy talents such as Myles Lewis Skelly and Ethan Nwaneri.

However, we dropped points on a frustratingly high number of occasions – 8 times this season. Although some of these can be attributed to sending-offs – and we have since improved our discipline – we have drawn several games we should have won.

<strong>Games We Dropped Unnecessary Points In</strong>

We should have beaten Fulham 2-1 but drew because Martinelli made a schoolboy error of not staying onside (our xG was above 2). We should have easily beaten 15th-place Everton at home, but we succumbed to a goalless draw despite our “dominance”, as Arteta puts it, and an xG above 1.

Against Chelsea, we had countless fantastic chances whipped into the box in the final quarter, most notably a 2-on-1 with Trossard, Havertz, and the keeper in the dying seconds of the game. Trossard should have left it for Havertz, who would have had the easiest of tap-ins to secure a significant London derby victory. But as things stand, the opportunity was wasted.

For all these games, we had Odegaard, Saka, Rice, Martinelli, Trossard, and Havertz, so they can’t be blamed on injuries. Instead, it was our inability to score goals from adequate chances that ultimately cost us the three points. In my opinion, scoring goals has been our biggest struggle this season – we can create some lovely chances, but we struggle at getting them in the back of the net.

<strong>Attacking Struggles</strong>

Two weeks ago, for Sky Sports’ Monday Night Football special, Thierry Henry gave a thorough explanation regarding our struggles in attack. Most notably, he highlighted the lack of willingness to play forward and take risks as he addressed our “predictable” playing style of routinely passing the ball back.

What he says is true, and the root cause of it might be Arteta’s defensive mindset that has largely remained the same over the last few seasons. In an attempt to “dominate” the game, we play too cautiously and take too few risks – especially after grabbing the lead. It seems like the players become complacent with a one or two goal advantage.

However, as a title contender for the third time in a row, we must transform ourselves into a fearsome attacking side that frightens defences – like the team we were at the start of last year, scoring 4+ goals consistently for several games in a row.

One key hindrance was the Odegaard injury, which lasted about two months. His absence and gradual return were peppered with non-appearances from Rice, Havertz, Trossard, Merino, and Saka. This significantly slowed down our attack. To make matters worse, Saka recently underwent surgery and is expected to be out until March, amounting to two months of the football season without him.

Unfortunately, even with our entire squad together and uninjured up front, we have struggled to score goals. Our draws against Chelsea, Fulham, and Everton highlighted the lack of attacking flow. One glaring aspect is the absence of a striker. It has become evident that Havertz is not a true No. 9 due to his slow movements and poor touches in the box. He has struggled to score goals, which puts pressure on other players to step up and do his job. When you get paid 275K a week, you just have to do a better job than that.

In fairness, Havertz seems to be playing out of position. He looks more comfortable dropping back a little to support the midfield. Perhaps he is better suited for a midfield role than the striker position.

Another key issue is our slow, passive build-up which allows the opposing team to regain their defensive composure, making it much harder for us to break through with clinical chances. In addition, we often try to maintain our defensive shape, dominating the pitch in the final third. However, this cautious gameplay leads to a lot of passing around the box, compromising our attacking prospects to nullify counterattacks and maintain possession. We don't make enough runs forward, and it hurts our goalscoring abilities.

Furthermore, we have become too predictable on the right. 45% of our final third attacks linger on the right flank, more than any other team in the Premier League. This is largely due to Saka's dribbling skills and his silky link-up play with Odegaard, with Ben White often running down to complement the build-up. Unfortunately, both full-back and right-wing are injured, and Odegaard is underperforming at the moment.

In recent games, such as the one against Everton, the Toffees concentrated their defence on the right, making it hard for Saka and Odegaard to break through. Nevertheless, our build-up play has been neglected on the left, affecting our ability to counter from both sides of the pitch.

<strong>Conclusion</strong>

All in all, Arsenal need to revamp their attack.

Before it costs us the season. Again.
