---
title: "Year In Review: What's Wrong With Arsenal"
date: "Dec 16, 2024"
category: "Football"
excerpt: "This season, Arsenal have been rather poor..."
id: "20"
featured: false
link: "https://facebook.com/post4"
---

With just a fortnight to 2025, 16 Premier League gameweeks have passed. In this timespan, Arsenal have a paltry 50% win rate, having drawn 6, lost 2 and won just 8. This unexpected and underwhelming first half of the season from Arsenal has astounded me. As things stand, they have 30 points and sit 3rd in the Premier League table, 6 points behind Liverpool who have a game in hand and 1 point behind Chelsea who also have a game in hand -- not to mention their extremely appealing run of fixtures for the next 8 games.

In addition, only 3 points behind Arsenal are four-time champions Manchester City, who will play a Manchester derby at home tonight. Therefore, in a worst-case scenario, Arsenal could end up 4 points behind Chelsea, 9 points behind Liverpool — both of whom currently have a higher GD than Arsenal — and level with Manchester City, who are not our main competitors but still worth mentioning.

Ever since Mikel Arteta joined midseason in 2019, following the departure of Aston Villa manager Unai Emery, it seemed as though Arsenal kept progressing and improving in some aspect or the other. The 19/20 season was shaky, but Arteta did join midseason and ultimately beat Chelsea 2-1 to win a record-extending 14th FA Cup.

When the pandemic struck, Arsenal lost several key players and finished 8th for a second successive season, leading to a lot of criticism and doubt. The next season, however, Arsenal bounced back from an extremely poor start to finish 5th, just missing out on the Champions League. In 22/23, Arsenal defied all expectations to lead the Premier League, faltering in the last month but earning a steady 2nd place.

This was a major success for Arteta's project of rebuilding a new, young squad that could challenge for the title. After winning the Community Shield, Arsenal had an even more successful Premier League season, missing out on the title by the finest of margins and reaching the UCL quarter-finals for the first time in 14 years. It was another trophyless season, but to me, the promise of progression justified the silverware scarcity.

Twice we had come second, only bested by the Manchester City juggernaut. Coming into the 24/25 season, I was only praying for a City downfall, which would surely guarantee an Arsenal title for the first time in 21 years... right? However, with the season almost halfway through, I'm not so convinced.

Arsenal have consistently been dropping points this season. It started against Brighton, Manchester City, and Bournemouth due to silly red card challenges, and was exacerbated by a ligament injury that forced team captain Odegaard onto the sidelines for months. His absence only highlighted his importance to the club, so his return, which coincided with other injuries clearing up as well, seemed like a fresh start for Arsenal. They won 3-0, 5-1, and 5-2 against Nottingham Forest, Sporting CP, and West Ham, scoring 13 goals in just a week.

However, back-to-back draws in the Premier League since then have dampened my hopeful spirits of a 10 or 15-game winning streak that would bolster our title challenge as we play catchup with Liverpool. Instead, they dropped 4 points against Fulham and Everton, games we should have won, and have now given Chelsea a chance to outpace them as well.

These draws were unnecessary, and as title contenders, Arsenal should have won them without a second thought. In their 1-1 draw against Fulham, they had an xG above 2 while Fulham's was a trivial 0.16. Fast forward to the Emirates where, in a goalless draw against a team inches away from relegation, it was 1.22 vs 0.09. A stark difference that is not visible in the slightest on the scoresheet.

There are many factors to blame for this slip-up. On one hand, there were the disciplinary issues which have been improved upon and the key injuries that have largely cleared up now. Despite this, Arsenal have not yet returned to their dominant ways.

In my opinion, the team should take most of the blame for this. First and foremost, there is the glaring issue of our squad missing a key striker. Ever since Aubemeyang left in the 2022 winter transfer window due to a fallout with Arteta and poor discipline, Arsenal haven't found a suitable replacement.

Kai Havertz was supposed to fill in the gap but he has been a major disappointment. I like him quite a bit and he is rather hardworking. However, he isn't a true center forward and rarely has the impact required. What Arsenal genuinely need right now is a talented striker who can finish off chances and score goals. From what I've seen in these past few months, we have created brilliant chances, and the xG stats back me up here. However, our finishing has been below standard, and it has cost us crucial points.

In this case, you need a player like Erling Haaland, Alexander Isak, Chris Wood, or Ollie Watkins, who are quick in the penalty area and get the ball in the back of the net. After all, in football, it doesn't matter how fluid your build-up play is if you can't score. It's like doing well in a sprint race but stopping a few feet before the finish line.

I'm not trying to be harsh, but Kai Havertz is slow in the penalty area and does not reliably finish off chances, which to me makes his high work rate irrelevant. He tries and tries, but the Premier League is a results industry, especially when you are a striker and your team is contending for the title.

Gabriel Jesus is even worse: he has yet to register a goal this season in all competitions, despite having countless chances to score a goal. He was good for Arsenal two seasons ago but has completely dropped off since then, and if you ask me, his time in Arsenal is done -- along with Oleksandr Zinchenko, with Calafiori and Myles Lewis-Skelly performing far better at left-back.

Martinelli has also been performing poorly for the past few months and is struggling to create an impact in the game. His inefficiency at times causes Arsenal's build-up to shift to the right, with Saka and Odegaard, destabilizing it and making it harder to break through. This was seen in our goalless draw against Everton.

All in all, Arsenal's main issue is a lack of goal-finishing. That is why we need to re-vamp our forwards in the following January transfer window.
