---
title: "Cinematic Storytelling"
date: "Sep 12, 2024"
category: "Growth"
excerpt: "How Contemporary Filmmakers Confront Social and Political Issues..."
id: "21"
featured: false
link: "https://facebook.com/post5"
---

A study published in Social Science Quarterly found that movies with political messages can significantly influence viewers' opinions on social and political issues like healthcare reform, and these effects can last for weeks. This only begins to uncover the impact contemporary filmmakers can have in addressing societal challenges. In this essay, I will explore the cinematic techniques used by modern filmmakers to confront these issues. I will also examine how these techniques are used in different films.

Filmmakers often use emotional appeal, or pathos, to draw viewers into characters' struggles and make complex social issues more relatable. Movies like “Black Panther” and “The Kite Runner” use this emotional connection to highlight the difficulties faced by underrepresented groups, such as African and Muslim communities.

The superhero movie “Black Panther” not only celebrates African heritage but also offers vital representation for African audiences. As Jamil Smith points out in the Times, such representation is scarce in mainstream media, making Black Panther a notable cultural achievement.

Similarly, “The Kite Runner” explores the prejudice faced by Muslim and Asian communities by focusing on the main character, Amir, who grapples with suspicion and bias in the aftermath of the World Trade Center attacks. Through Amir’s relationships and personal struggles, the film shows how these biases impact real lives.

Ultimately, by creating strong emotional connections between viewers and characters, films allow audiences to experience and empathize with the struggles of disadvantaged communities, making social issues like these feel immediate and personal.

Filmmakers also use different narrative styles to address political or social issues differently. Firstly, documentaries use unfiltered footage to present the genuine views of marginalized communities. By avoiding sensationalism, they let ignored voices be heard in the media, encouraging important talks about justice.

In addition, many documentaries display important political events in engaging ways. In “The Big Short”, director Adam McKay uses humor, clear metaphors, varying tones, and fourth wall breaks to explain the 2008 monetary crisis, making complex financial ideas easier for viewers to comprehend.

Furthermore, biopics like “The Iron Lady” use character-driven narratives to convey political issues. This technique allows viewers to connect with the characters and understand their feelings or underlying motivations, making the problems more relatable.

When contemporary filmmakers address critical issues in their films, they incorporate several aspects in the storyline and dialogues. However, they also use subtle techniques like lighting, sound, and editing to reinforce the message they wish to create.

In general, harsh lighting creates discomfort and unease and typically depicts a grim reality whereas soft, natural lighting conveys hope. Silence is frequently used as a metaphor for voicelessness or suppression, making it especially effective in dystopian films like “The Hunger Games”. Moreover, fast-paced editing can create urgency around prominent issues and convey chaos and complexity. On the contrary, long takes and slow pacing can let the viewer dwell on the emotional weight of social problems, giving them time to reflect on it.

In conclusion, bonding viewers and characters while using an appropriate narrative style and tweaking certain technical aspects during filming are effective ways of presenting political and social topics, especially if the character represents a broader societal matter. In conclusion, movies are a powerful way to address social or political issues, and modern-day filmmakers have the potential to influence public opinion significantly.
