---
title: "Confirmation bias: We sure love ourselves!"
date: "Sep 7, 2024"
category: "Growth"
excerpt: "Confirmation bias is something that affects us all..."
id: "22"
featured: false
link: "https://facebook.com/post6"
---

I have recently been reading a book called 'The Art of Thinking Clearly' by Rolf Dobelli. It explores cognitive biases, which are systematic deviations from rational thinking. They are tricks our brain plays on us while thinking to process information quickly. Unfortunately, they can result in us making errors in how we make decisions or what we think about the world around us.

One prominent example of this is the 'confirmation bias', in which we look for articles, videos, or other sources of information that support and reinforce our viewpoints and ideologies. For instance, if you are, say, a Ronaldo fan (like me!), you will more likely read about Ronaldo's struggles and achievements and why he is the best footballer ever, rather than focusing on Messi's awards and accomplishments.

In short, confirmation bias is when our brain filters out novel information that contrasts with our existing beliefs (also called 'disconfirming evidence') while keeping information that coincides with our beliefs ('confirming evidence').

We see this phenomenon in various locations. Take, for example, the business world, where a company implements a new strategy to improve it. Any signs suggesting that the strategy has been successful are embraced with wide-open arms, while opposite scenarios are labeled as 'exceptional' cases and ignored. In retrospect, this can cause a business to overlook certain aspects of its operations, significantly affecting its future performance.

In politics, political news is often biased towards one side or another, so when picking a particular viewpoint, people may only follow news sites that portray their preferred party as the 'good' side. This instance of confirmation bias can result in polarization and the citizens of one party simply refusing to listen to the other side, especially if they are part of a large political community with similar beliefs.

In the world of business journalism, a writer will construct a simple theory and find two or three pieces of 'evidence', like 'Apple is an excellent company because it fosters an innovative workplace'. The writer will go on to state several other companies that nurture innovation and how it has contributed to their success. It is important to note here that the writer might be correct in his predictions, but the point is that the writer is very unlikely to search for instances that disprove the writer's theory. This includes cases where companies achieved notoriety and publicity without harboring innovation or nurtured innovation but failed nonetheless. There must be various examples featuring both possibilities, but the writer chooses to ignore them since they would spoil the story.

Astrology functions on similar principles: utterly vague horoscopes like 'Do not try to always be perfect' can be applied to hundreds of millions of lives worldwide, irrespective of their birthday. What's more, general statements such as 'Health is good' apply to practically every one of the eight billion human beings on this planet. This one in particular is dominant in the animal kingdom as well; in fact, it applies to every living organism. And yet it appears in the horoscope section of my newspaper at least thrice a week.

Economists too have been shown to conjure unclear assertions and predictions with no concrete base, predictions that could apply to a variety of scenarios, though they occur less frequently. Even self-help literature is guilty of this cognitive bias. You will often see commonly-repeated phrases like 'Meditation is the key to happiness' and 'Hard work is the key to success'. Personally, I enjoy meditating and although I do not do it often I find it highly calming. Nonetheless, these books do not talk about the many people who are happy despite not meditating or those who deal with depression and anxiety despite regularly practicing mindfulness, choosing instead to portray meditation as a gateway to utopia.

In short, most people relate better to ideas or notions they agree with or those that align with their core values. Avoiding confirmation bias helps you make more informed and objective decisions. When you're open to evidence that challenges your views, you develop a broader perspective and grow intellectually.

--

Om
